Attempt to explain partitioning better. (#510)
apache/couchdb-documentation: src/partitioned-dbs/index.rst

use case, it's quite logical to group all documents by their ``sensor_id``
field. In this case, we would call the ``sensor_id`` the partition.

A partition offers two benefits. Firstly, it allows you to simplify the

> workload on the query engine, by allowing the engine to only query shards

Reviewer: I'm not sure "simplify the workload" is clearer here. What it's doing is allowing the user to group data in a way that is understood _a priori_, a.k.a. ahead of time. Since most searches (theoretically) are being done only within one given partition, queries are _optimised_ by only having to run within any one given partition at a time.

that it needs to query. Secondly, it allows the database to scale in more
predictable ways.

> 

Reviewer 2: Several thoughts on this paragraph:

1. It's not technically accurate to say "A partition", since the whole point is multiple partitions.
2. I think there can be more than _only_ two benefits, so we shouldn't imply that these are the only benefits.
3. It also doesn't really "simplify" the workload, but rather reduces it (partitioning is inherently more complex, actually, at least in the mathematical sense)
4. "only query the shards it needs to query" doesn't seem clear to me. It sounds like a tautology.

I would suggest something like:

> Partitioning offers two primary benefits. First, it reduces the workload on the query engine by
> allowing it to query only a subset of shards. Second, it allows the database to scale in more 
> predictable ways.

A good partition has two basic properties. First, it should have a high
cardinality. That is, a large partitioned database should have many more

> partitions than documents, compared to an unpartitioned database. A database

Reviewer 2: This sentence is confusing.  More partitions than documents?

> partitions than documents, compared to an unpartitioned database. A database

Reviewer: Hm, you lose the subtlety here of "significantly more partitions than documents in a single partition." I don't think that's necessarily a good thing.

1,000,000 documents split into 10,000 partitions is 100 docs/partition. That would satisfy the recommendation in the original text, but not your new definition, since 10,000 partitions isn't many more partitions than documents in the original 1,000,000 document database.

that has a single partition would be an anti-pattern for this feature, as
one of the major bonuses of partitioning is that it allows index lookups to

> iterate over a smaller B-Tree. Secondly, the amount of data per partition

Reviewer: Would prefer the discussion didn't get into the implementation detail that, in CouchDB 3.x, storage is B-Tree based. This won't be the case with FoundationDB (CouchDB 4.0). It'd be sufficient to say that "it allows index lookups to occur over a small set of documents."

> iterate over a smaller B-Tree. Secondly, the amount of data per partition

Reviewer 2: To be consistent with "First,", earlier in the paragraph, we should also say "Second", not "Secondly". ("Firstly" and "Secondly" are awkward in this context anyway, as they're adverbs, not adjectives, which subtly changes the meaning of the sentence, but I digress... :smile: ).

```suggestion
iterate over a smaller B-Tree. Second, the amount of data per partition
```

should be "small". The general recommendation is to limit individual

> partitions to less than ten gigabytes (10 GB) of data. Which, for the example

Reviewer 2: What is this recommendation based on?

Would it not make more sense to make a recommendation based on index size than on data size? Given that index size isn't trivial to determine, maybe basing this recommendation on number of documents (which is usually a closer proxy to index size) would make sense?

@wohali probably has better insight into the technical details here than me.

Reviewer: https://blog.cloudant.com/2019/03/05/Partition-Databases-Introduction.html has an excellent introduction, see under _What makes a good partition key?_

We can't cut and paste that text, but it should help.

Note it's a 4-part blog series; it'd be good to read all of it before moving ahead.

not have to wait for all ``q`` shards to respond, which is both
efficient and faster.

In other words, you can use partitions to help pre-process views. As another
example, you may be recording traffic to various websites, and 95% of your
queries are based around 'what happened in relation to website example.com'.
By partitioning your database with the key ``example.com:uuid``, and using
the ``/dbname/_partition/example.com`` query, you are significantly simplifying

> the work the query engine has to do.

Reviewer: Compare and contrast this argument with that we make for Mango partial indexes - where we artificially limit the documents in a Mango index based on an initial condition. How does this differ from our suggestion there? The text is unclear to the prospective user.

> When to NOT use partitions?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When to NOT use partitions
```

> When to NOT use partitions?

Reviewer: Not exactly good grammar. Why not: "Why not use partitions?" This would be parallel structure with the previous heading.

===========================

> If you can not split your data using a common partition, or you end up with

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you cannot split your data using a common partition, or you end up with
```

> If you can not split your data using a common partition, or you end up with

Reviewer: `cannot` is one word.

Reviewer: What is a "common partition?"

> a small number of partitions, it is more efficient to use seperate databases.

Reviewer: `separate`

> Following on with the example above, if you are only monitoring 10 websites,

Reviewer: It is confusing that with your PR, we now have 2 examples in this documentation section: website monitoring, and sensor monitoring. Are you able to unify your example with the sensor monitoring example?

Or, if not, can you clarify what you're referring to with "the example above" in this line?

it is far more efficient to have 10 databases, rather than 1 database with
10 partitions, with 10,000,000 entries in one partition, 500 in another, and

> 10,000 in all the others.

Reviewer: It might be more straightforward to talk about "consistently sized partitions" .

As partitioning relates to which shard the data is placed into, you want to
roughly balance the amount of data in each partition, but you should think
of that as a design guideline when you are thinking about what to partition

> your data on.

Reviewer: This is an extremely awkward, run-on sentence. I like the idea you're introducing here, but please try to rephrase it.

Reviewer 2: Possible suggestion:

> To balance the data evenly across shards, it is useful to consider the partition key when designing your database.

Additinally, if you are not using the ``/dbname/_partition/...`` endpoint
for a majority of your queries, you are also potentially losing performance,
because you won't get the automatic load-balancing of documents over shards

> that a non partitioned database gives you.

Reviewer: Same point as the previous paragraph; besides the misspelling, this is awkwardly phrased. I like the idea of "Oh, you're not using the `_partition` specific endpoints most of the time? You probably don't need a partitioned DB."

Reviewer 2: Possible suggestion:

> If you find that you are rarely using ``/dbname/_partition/...`` endpoints, the use of partitions may actually hurt performance. This is because CouchDB is unable to automatically distribute documents and associated queries across shards in the most efficient way.
